Skateboarding is exhilarating - you can move quickly and fly through the
air! Before you can do amazing tricks in the air, though, you need to learn
the basics of skateboarding, and be prepared for a lot of trial and error.
The first thing you need to do is get a skateboard. It's probably best to
talk with a skateboarder to find a store that sells good quality skateboards, not just
toys. Many skateboarders create their own setup, but for your first board, someone
at a skate shop should be able to help you. A helmet, elbow pads,
knee pads, and wrist guards are important to get, as well. It is better to wear
all of those than to hurt yourself! Once you are ready to learn tricks, you might
also need to buy some skate shoes. Then you'll need to find a place to skateboard.

An empty parking lot (with a safe adult around) or your driveway are good places to start.
Skate parks are popping up in many towns now, so try to find one near you! Wherever
you go, though, make sure it's a place where skateboarding is allowed.

There are some basic movements you'll need to learn in order to
skateboard. The first movement is to find your stance. Most skateboarders
put their left foot towards the front of the board and use their right foot to
push themselves. If you're left-handed, you might want to try standing in a
"goofy" stance, with your right foot towards the front of the board and using
your left foot to push. Make sure your foot isn't all the way at the front of the
board, or it will tip forward.

Next, you'll want to practice how to push off the ground and glide along on
the board. Make sure most of your weight is over your front foot so that you
can balance as your back foot pushes. Push off of your back foot and
balance as the board moves. Balancing on the board as it's moving might
take some time to get used to, so make sure you're comfortable balancing
before you move on!

Once you get used to balancing with your weight over your front foot, you
can practice shifting your weight while you're on the moving skateboard.
After you push off, practice putting your back foot on the board and shifting
your weight so that you have equal weight in each foot. Then practice
shifting your weight back over your front foot so that you can push with your
back foot again.

Braking is another important movement. You use your back foot to brake, just
like you use it to push. Let the bottom of your back foot drag along the ground
to slowly bring you to a stop. Make sure you are moving slowly at first so that you
get better at judging how much force you need to put on your back foot to brake.

Last, practice how to get off the board. Once your board is stopped, with
your back foot on the ground, transfer your weight to your back foot and
take your front foot off the board. Ta-da! You took your first ride on a
skateboard! Keep practicing all of these basic movements slowly, until
you're very comfortable doing them. Then, try them at a faster speed. Once
you're confident in these basic moves, then you can start to learn cool
tricks! Make sure that you're always wearing your protective gear, and that
there is an adult nearby in case you fall.

Happy skateboarding!
